Many are the names in the common tongues for the great blessing which holy Legifer hath bestowed on us: "Lumes", "Glims", "Lanthorns", "Little-stars", "Twinkleboxes" and countless others in the tongue of Man alone. Many more exist in the languages of Dwarven-kind or the Elvish kindred and even the barbaric blabber of the Orcs, far more than could be mentioned.

Yet how poor and pitiful is the gratitude returned to the lord of Order for these daily wonders despite the great benefit that they provide! Little do we seem to think of what should happen if His blessing were to be withdrawn across the world, leaving us all groping in the dark. So for the further enlightenment of the reader (in every meaning of the term) here is the known history of His generosity:

In ages long past when cities had not begun and villages were but rudely built of straw-daubed walls with hide rooves, all except the highest of nobles lit torches for their homes within and without. Often naught else could be had: rushes burned but would only grow on the banks of warm rivers while coal mining scarce existed past tiny pits. Immeasurable was the amount of labor to keep the fickle fires of countless torches fed well enough to burn brightly but also guard them from catching aflame to everything else!

Of all the torments of the forces of Chaos in those hard days, few were of greater delight in their loathesome eyes than to set a feeble spirit to flitter about a torch or luchina so that it leaned closely to a curtain to set it ablaze, or topple a poorly fixed oil lamp to the floor to spread flaming liquid all about. Such wicked conjurations gained the name chandl-wyghts (or "candle devils" in more modern speech). in time the more devious servants of darkness learnt to use the mere threat of the spirits for extortion that proved of greater effect than the wanton destructiveness of the spirits themselves. Sigils of protection began to be sold by such merchants who would trade in them that offered a tenday or a month or a season's worth of respite despite furious efforts to quell such round-about funding of evil. Even these sigils in turn became targets for a few bold charlatans, selling counterfeit sigils that held no magic protection at all. However, these forgeries were especially dangerous; risking fates far worse than death for the makers unfortunate enough to be caught by the 'true' salers.

At length this ville traffic reached the household of a leader of an early guild of chandlers whose name has been lost to the ages. He apparently found one morning a threat scribbled upon a scrap of parchment to pay his tithe to the temple instead for 'insuring' the safety of his family and home. As his very life's work was the proper making of lights and fire-guarding, his rage was so kindled that he at once ran to the temple to shout with such a voice that half the village heard his oaths, demanding some means of the Lawful gods to stop his tormentors. Such had been his devotion to that no less than Iustitia herself appeared on the threshold of the temple. With a voice of thunder she proclaimed a call to holy war upon evil to last until the sun had set that day.

Of what events transpired that day we know little, save that every man and strong boy for miles around grabbed such arms and armor that were at hand to answer Iustitia's summon to go forth putting a great many dens of evil to the sword. As the last flickers of daylight vanished over the horizon, the mighty archangel vanished to leave behind something most wondrous. A massive tablet stood where she had been, made of a material like glass yet far stronger that no man had ever seen the like of before. It would at some length be given the name "illithium" by learned men of the time. The lengthy canticle of holy words the tablet bore wove a spell that lit a brilliant white glow from within a vessel held by the one with the patience to complete the wearisome chant. As if this gift were not great enough, so amazing was Legifer's grace that even a simple-minded apprentice was able to complete it so long as his attention stayed unbroken.

As quickly as they could be made, skilled smiths began fashioning more vessels for these blessed lights out of tin or brass with many piercings to let out the light from within. But the tradesman who had first begged Legifer's aid crafted the first true lantern encompassed with glass, knowing its affinity to the god. By the time the pious man went to his eternal reward he claimed to have fashioned at least a hundred-score lanterns with his own hands - and likely so!

With the dispersal of these blessed lights all across the lands, not only were the ruinous powers sorely hurt but also many who would have perished in some firey tragedy hath lived full lives instead. Countless hearths and halls came to be lit without smoke or a pence's worth of tinder. To say nothing of the relief to forest-wardens when the common man needed far less wood throughout the year.

Now let thy mind be enlightened by the full truth of Legifer's beneficence, that you may reflect upon his gift to the full measure.
