Attnam, the Holy City of Valpuri
--------------------------------

Geographical information

Attnam is a relatively small city located in a thick evergreen forest called Pertturia,
where it acts as a capitol of the Holy Empire of Perttuania, that in turn controls all
of the Isle of Perttuera and is the world's 324th biggest sovereign state. The city is
physically quite isolated from the rest of the world, but the citizens don't mind it
all since almost all of them have high speed net connections. The oceanic coast is quite
near the border of the forest, however, and pilgrims wandering to the Cathedral and
traders delivering goods, luxury items and dolphin food for the clergy class are not
entirely uncommon in Attnam.

Nature

Nature is close in everyday life of Attnam, because civilization ends completely no
further than at the city gate (if it has ever even begun) and wilderness takes over.
The city guards are obligated to keep the area inside the city wall safe, but outside
wolves, lynxes and wild bears may roam freely. Settlement of goblins, ogres and mutant
school food mushrooms are also common. Even Enner Beasts have been heard wailing in
the darkness that covers the forest, but they, of course, are killed with magic
missiles if they ever wander closer than 500 yards to the city, in order to prevent
structural damage caused in the city.

Sources of livelihood

The citizens live mostly by hunting bears and such from the forest and whittling
sacred-looking items from wood that foreigners that seek truth and Valpuri's blessing
from Attnam buy eagerly as holy relics. The public expenditures of the state, e.g.
salaries of Überpriestial elite guards, cost of the enormous amounts of sacramental
Coke needed in the Cathedral and the price of replenishing Perttu's slave staff and
harem monthly, are funded almost entirely by a state-owned valpurium mine located in
the tundra section of Perttuera.

Government

Attnam and the Empire of Perttuania are officially ruled by Valpuri the Great Frog and
the King of Gods, but since He is quite often absent when decision are made, His Most
Pious Überpriest acts as a messenger who delivers His orders to mortal men from godly
planes. The Überpriest retains his position for his entire lifetime. When he dies, the
next leader is chosen immediately by the Valpuristic Conclave of High Priests, and is
almost always the one who killed the last Überpriest (although there seem to be some
other, not so popularily known requirements for this crowning).

History

The former headquarters of the Empire were located up in the tundra area of Perttuera
but were eaten by a swarm of angry polar bears in 913 Anno Valpurus. Attnam was founded
in the next year, and, as can be well guessed by looking the map, its place was decided
randomly by choosing the coordinates by dice-throwing.

The first building to rise in Attnam was the Cathedral, which yet today looms over the
city as a symbol of Valpuri's might. The Überpriest of that day used much of his mighty
magical abilities to aid the building process and to protect it from the attacks of
wildeebeasts. So much that after the Cathedral and the city wall were finally up, he
was easily beaten in duel by Perttu, the nowaday Überpriest. Perttu moved to the
Cathedral immediately and started his reign by naming the country and all important
landmarks (Attnam was not considered as such) inside its borders after himself. And
during the following decades under his rule, Attnam has gradually become what it is
today.