// done
/ partly done or needs testing/balancing
(r) rejected

//Genie

	The sprit that lives in a bottle. When freed grants a wish. When the Genie becomes hostile it makes a wish and wishes for a plate mail.

/Mammoth
	
	Pretty normal creatures except that when they die they drop an ivory horn. 

Gremlin
	
	These creatures multiply when they touch water and die when see bright lights.

Dwarf

	Dwarfs are a pretty generic character. Except that they carry pick-axes and dig through walls. They should also have more mithril and other precious metals than normal monsters. You should also be able to bribe them to your side with gold.

Hobbit

	A Tolkien cliche, but don't mind about that. Maybe these creatures could carry more rings (especially rings of invisiblity)

Gnome

//Floating eye (or Beholder)

	 When you hit this monster you will fall asleep (a la Nethack)

Titan
Giant

Scorpion

	Poisons.

Lich

	Preferably like in BG2.

Cyclops
Vampire
	
	Should be damaged by bright lights.

Minotaur

Kerberus

	Bites with three heads.

Light Bugs (work in progress-name)
      
	These creatures normally are drawn towards light sources.

Dark Bugs (work in progress-name)
     
	These creatures normally are drawn towards darkness.

//Necromancer

	Should raise corpses as skeletons and zombies.

Mutant tentacle

	Purple skin. Low agility, but very high intelligence. Can use humanoid weapons.

//unnamed (maybe xorn or ghost)
	
	Can go through walls

Huge firefly
     
	Flying. Emits light (might be a useful pet).

Shaman

	Curses at you and so lowers the echantment level of a randomly picked item in your equipment or stack.

Monkey

	(a la Nethack) Fights a short time and then steals one of your items and then tries to run away.

//Eddies in space-time continuum

       These horrible "creatures" teleport the player randomly around and sometimes create weird couches.

Mutated giant mushroom
	
	Most of the time stand idle and sometimes teleport from place to place. Sometimes shoot spores at player. Sometimes the spores could grow to be mushrooms. (not too often though, so the level wouldn't be filled with mushrooms.)

//Skunk

	Smells really bad.

//Hedgehog

	Monster appearing in level 1 which causes damage to the attacker if he doesn't use a weapon.

?

	Guy who severs bodyparts from any corpse he encounters and laughs diabolically.

Butterfly of storms

	Causes small tornadoes and thunderstorms around the level by flapping its wings.

//Hattifattener

	Not dangerous in normal weather, but gathers electricity during thunderstorms and starts shooting lightnings. (always moving through the land without caring about other monsters that may or may not be on their way)

Grid feature

	Zaps people.

Mad cow

	Eating makes the player mad, too.

Pikachu

	Lightning attack. Stats from pokemon.com: size 40 cm, weight 6 kg. Sometimes shouts, "The Primary Main
	Objective is to destroy the Evil Power!"

King Kong

	An ape standing six meters tall.

Mimic

	Like in Nethack.

Ent (or treant)

	Like in LotR.

Hydra

	Attacks everyone around, like Elpuri.

Wumpus

	Appears randomly for a short time on mountanous areas. Pays you something if you catch it.

Mummy

	With the wrapping.

Spider queen

	Named.

//Sumo wrestler

	Very fat.

The Monster guarding the Cave of Caerbannog

	(quote from Monthy Python & Holy Grail)
    
	"But follow only if you are men of valor. For the entrance to this cave
	is guarded by a monster, a creature so foul and cruel that no man yet
	has fought with it and lived. Bones of full fifty men lie strewn about
	its lair ... therefore sweet knights if you may doubt your strength or
	courage come no further, for death awaits you all with nasty pointy
	teeth."

	Looks like a rabbit, but in reality, deadly.

Philosopher's stone golem

	Turns everything it hits to gold.

Deep sea blowfish (Singularis minutia gigantica)

	Protects itself from enemies by inflating itself to many times
	its normal size. The bloat poison can be extracted from its body.

Flying squirrel

Mountain troll

	A mountain who is a troll.

Exploding mushrooms

High-level thieves

Monster which engulfs others

Basilisk or cockatrice

	Petrifies.

Carpenter 

	Sells wood stuff and asks the player: "How much wood would a 
	wood-chuck chuck if a wood-chuck could chuck wood?"

Troll

	Regenerates at enormous rate, and its blood heals the enemy if spilled
	over him -> unusually long battles, good pets.

Mola Mola

	Gigantic hybrid of a perch and an octopus whose eyes shine with
	ugly green ligth. Carnivorous and sentient. Uses almost all
	of her energy in rapidly making new muscles and fins, may grow
	twenty feet tall, and can shut down her life supporting systems
	for days and still recover in full strength. More intelligent
	than enner beasts.

Nuas

	According to a Valpuristic legend, a sea monster which gave birth
	to Mola Mola and numerous other demons. Similiar to the biblical
	Leviathan.

Flying asses

	Shoot lightnings and use chemical weapons.

Knight of Ni

	Says "Ni". At higher levels learns to say
	"Ekky-ekky-ekky-ekky-z'Bang, zoom-Boing, z'nourrrwringmm".

Airavata

	Giant white war elephant with four tusks like mountains
	(mounted by Indra, the Hindu god of weather and war)

Varaha

	Divine warrior boar
	(avatar of Vishnu which defeated the demon Hiranyakshyap,
	brother of Hiranyakashipu)

Narasimha

	Powerful man-lion with deadly nails
	(avatar of Vishnu which defeated the demon Hiranyakashipu,
	brother of Hiranyakshyap)

Leviathan or Tiamat

	Giant demonic multi-headed sea monster or whale
	(Leviathan is the biblical version, Tiamat Babylonian)

Behemoth

	Unimaginably powerful amphibious monster, with a body
	probably resembling that of a giant hippo
	(mentioned in the Book of Job, 40:15)

Ziz

	Gigantic bird monster
	(the Jewish mythology states that its meat will be served
	along with Behemoth and Leviathan after the Armageddon)


Sirens

	'So far so good,' said she, when I had ended my story, 'and now pay
	attention to what I am about to tell you- heaven itself, indeed,
	will recall it to your recollection. First you will come to the Sirens
	who enchant all who come near them. If any one unwarily draws in too
	close and hears the singing of the Sirens, his wife and children
	will never welcome him home again, for they sit in a green field and
	warble him to death with the sweetness of their song. There is a great
	heap of dead men's bones lying all around, with the flesh still
	rotting off them. Therefore pass these Sirens by, and stop your
	men's ears with wax that none of them may hear; but if you like you
	can listen yourself, for you may get the men to bind you as you
	stand upright on a cross-piece half way up the mast, and they must
	lash the rope's ends to the mast itself, that you may have the
	pleasure of listening. If you beg and pray the men to unloose you,
	then they must bind you faster.'
	(The Odyssey, by Homer)


Scylla

	'Of these two rocks the one reaches heaven and its peak is lost
	in a dark cloud. This never leaves it, so that the top is never
	clear not even in summer and early autumn. No man though he had twenty
	hands and twenty feet could get a foothold on it and climb it, for
	it runs sheer up, as smooth as though it had been polished. In the
	middle of it there is a large cavern, looking West and turned
	towards Erebus; you must take your ship this way, but the cave is so
	high up that not even the stoutest archer could send an arrow into it.
	Inside it Scylla sits and yelps with a voice that you might take to be
	that of a young hound, but in truth she is a dreadful monster and no
	one- not even a god- could face her without being terror-struck. She
	has twelve mis-shapen feet, and six necks of the most prodigious
	length; and at the end of each neck she has a frightful head with
	three rows of teeth in each, all set very close together, so that they
	would crunch any one to death in a moment, and she sits deep within
	her shady cell thrusting out her heads and peering all round the rock,
	fishing for dolphins or dogfish or any larger monster that she can
	catch, of the thousands with which Amphitrite teems. No ship ever
	yet got past her without losing some men, for she shoots out all her
	heads at once, and carries off a man in each mouth'
	(The Odyssey, by Homer)

Charybdis

	'You will find the other rocks lie lower, but they are so close
	together that there is not more than a bowshot between them. A
	large fig tree in full leaf grows upon it, and under it lies the
	sucking whirlpool of Charybdis. Three times in the day does she
	vomit forth her waters, and three times she sucks them down again; see
	that you be not there when she is sucking, for if you are, Neptune
	himself could not save you; you must hug the Scylla side and drive
	ship by as fast as you can, for you had better lose six men than
	your whole crew.'
	(The Odyssey, by Homer)

Tennyo

	Beautiful female angelic creature with magical powers. Wears a
	a feathered robe called amano hagoromo which allows her to fly and
	cross the border between heaven and earth. If the robe is stolen,
	the tennyo will become a servant of the thief in order to retrieve it.
	(japanese mythological being)

Briareos

	Giant with one hundred arms and fifty heads. The glare of his
	hundred eyes makes everyone panic automatically.
	(in Greek mythology, one of the numerous sons of Gaia and Ouranos,
	earth and sky. His nephew Zeus called him to scare away Hera and her
	allies who were about to rebel)

Tooth fairy

Miniature black hole

	Zero-intelligence "monster" which sucks items, fluids, gases,
	characters and terrains inside it, never to be seen again.
	Immune to all weapons, but can be destroyed by magic (thaumic
	particles are not affected by gravity).

Game abuser

	Stupid monster who has a lair on a secret level where he uses
	mushrooms, banana peels, broken bottles, gods etc. to gain infinite
	exp.

Panda

Mind worm

	'As the writhing, teeming mass of Mind Worms swarmed over the outer
	perimeter, we saw the defenders recoil in horror. "Stay calm! Use
	your flame guns!" shouted the commander, but to no avail. It is well
	known that the Mind Worm Boil uses psychic terror to paralyze its
	prey, and then carefully implants ravenous larvae in the brains of
	its still-conscious victims. Even with the best weapons, only the
	most disciplined troops can resist this horrific attack.

		-- Lady Deirdre Skye,
		"Our Secret War"'

	(from Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri)

Monster which can eat metals

Snowman

	Melts in the summer and leaves a carrot.

The Groke (suggested by Henri Kiviluoto)

	A dark, mound-shaped creature with staring eyes; everything she
	touches dies, and the ground freezes wherever she sits. Appears
	in Tove Jansson's books, for instance "Who Will Comfort Toffle?"
	and the Moomin series.

Smurfs

	Devout communists.

Brainsucker

	Jumps on one's head and sucks brains. Can be used as a helmet.
	Is shot from a special launcher.

Splitting monsters

Monsters which release other monsters from their body when they die

Bees

Golden Eagle

	Hyper-powerful.

Nightingale

Babel fish

	"The Babel fish is small, yellow, leechlike, and probably the oddest
	thing in the Universe. It feeds on brainwave energy received not from
	its own carrier but from those around it. It absorbs all unconscious
	mental frequencies from this brainwave energy to nourish itself with.
	It then excretes into the mind of its carrier a telepathic matrix
	formed by combining the conscious thought frequencies with nerve
	signals picked up from the speech centers of the brain which has
	supplied them. The practical upshot of all this is that if you stick
	a Babel fish in your ear you can instantly understand anything said
	to you in any form of language. The speech patterns you actually hear
	decode the brainwave matrix which has been fed into your mind by your
	Babel fish."
	(The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, by Douglas Adams)

Mutant turtle (suggested by Henri Kiviluoto)

	Very good in martial arts.

Poison dart frog (Dendrobates terribilis)

	A frog whose skin contains deadly neuro-toxin. Used by the natives
	of South America in production of poison arrows.

Reef stonefish (Synanceia verrucosa)

	A quite poisonous species that is camouflaged so it looks like a
	rock, and its spines inject venom to anyone unfortunate to step
	on one.
	(I recall seeing one in the Seattle Aquarium and it looked...
	stony - holybanana)

Black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis)

	Very dangerous snake up to 4.5m long, which can outrun a human,
	crawling at speed of 20 km/h, and kill him easily with a large
	dose of powerful toxin which paralyzes and kills him rapidly.

Octopus

	Very challenging for the bodypart engine.

Piranha

	Expert at devouring swimmers alive.

IVAN developer

	Can alter reality in the entire Universe as he wishes and is therefore
	beyond gods in strength (he could also be named "a Creator").

Banana Slug

	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana_slug

	example:

	Salt is harmful to all slugs; it causes the slug to dehydrate.
	Blood rushes to the surface of the skin to dilute the salt. This
	process is only effective with small quantities of salt.

Monkey, version II

	Engraves sequences of random characters in the ground. Occasionally
	produces Shakespeare quotes.

Giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla)

	Eats ants. See Wikipedia for the boring details.

Mog

Chocobo

	Can be catched and mounted.

Cow

	Not the brightest creature around, but by far the wisest above Valpurus.
	After all, it has integrated Zen-Buddhism deep in its enlightened life style,
	answering "MU" to every question you can think of.
	(Again, an idea which the gods blessed me with in a dream; There was
	a female shaman who could understand animal talk and she was walking
	a leashed cow - holybanana)
